---
layout: post
title: "Dashboards to monitor Food Safety Investigations at HelloFresh"
subtitle: "Using Google Data Studio to monitor Food Safety Complaints at a Meal Kit Company"
date: 2023-01-21
background: '/img/posts/FSI Dash/FSI-Dash.jpg'
---

***NOTE:*** 
*I have altered the data for the sake of HelloFresh’s privacy, and have also been given explicit permission to share the work below.*

## Overview
This dashboard was built to easily monitor and track Food Safety Investigations (FSIs) at HelloFresh within the Food Safety Department. FSIs are conducted when a customer calls with a foodborne illness complaint after consuming food that was purchased from HelloFresh, and an internal investigation is then initiated to identify any potential root causes of these complaints. FSIs once initiated should be completed as quickly as possible.

## Problem
Monitoring FSIs started to become cumbersome as the business grew. The food safety team asked for a dashboard to be created to be able to 1) track and trend these FSIs over time, 2) monitor the status of all FSIs (e.g. OPEN, PENDING, CLOSED), and 3) be able to filter through this data by certain criteria for more effective monitoring (e.g. ingredient, date range, distribution center, production week, etc.).

## Data Sources
* Customer Complaint Data: customer complaint data was collected via Google Forms which fed into a Google Sheet.
* FSI Data: FSI data was generated in a software called Intelex. Once a complaint was made, the FSI was initiated in Intelex - Intelex was chosen for this due to its native workflow tracking features. 

## Barriers / Considerations
While *some* of the data was flowing in via Google, not all of it was. The reason monitoring FSIs was becoming cumbersome in the first place was because some data sources were not within the Google Platform. The FSI data in particular resided in a software called Intelex, as it had a desirable workflow tracking feature. Initial exploratory data analysis uncovered data discrepancies and errors that were resolved prior to building the dashboard. 

## Solution
The food safety team was looking for a free solution to this problem due to budget constraints, so I opted for using Google Data Studio (now called Looker Studio). This was also ideal as data from customer complaints was being collected via Google Forms into a Google Sheet, meaning less problems with data being across multiple platforms. This problem could also be solved utilizing Tableau, Power BI, or other similar tools. The completed dashboard was divided into a few views:
* Pest Contaminations
* Foreign Materials
* Medical Visits
* Allergic Reactions

A sample of 2 of these views are displayed below (see left navigation bar for the different views). These are interactive, so feel free to play around with the filters and such.

<div class="iframe-GDS-container">
<iframe width="2900" height="3000" src="https://datastudio.google.com/embed/reporting/98758120-5e77-4fba-a7f7-96e0e15fe3ec/page/sXEDD" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>